real estate prices in some cities have
escalated to new heights there has been
no stopping certain areas and the
average individual has been put into
fear about never being able to get into
the market should they not buy in now as
a result there has been a complete
disaster waiting for these individuals
once the central banks reverse course on
this ultra low interest rate policy hold
on to your seats you came here for the
truth so let me unveil that for you
today we are going to look at the real
estate prices which have gone berserk in
areas like Seattle and others I want to
get into the situation of Illinois first
let's begin why Illinois is in trouble
63,000 public employees with
$100,000 plus salaries costing taxpayers
a whopping 10 billion so you have the
situation in Illinois which I have been
covering the pension crisis the debt
crisis but yet it continues to expand
and we have a problem here that is not
being addressed look at how many
individuals are being compensated at
such a high level when now there should
be cut backs there should be austerity
on the government not on the people all
right then you look at this graph here
diagram is showing you the top 10 most
highly compensated Illinois village and
city managers look this is definitely
considerable I want to get into this
Illinois is broke and continues to flirt
with the junk bond status it also gets
into some of things I just talked about
the junk bond stand status may not mean
much to you and I but in the financial
world it is significant it increases the
yield but it increases the risk by far
and that's the really what happens here
and you look at areas like Greece and
others this isn't a good thing okay it's
it's very clear about that whenever we
open the books Illinois is consistently
one of the worst offenders and it looks
at the different individuals making
these different salaries and they are
not at something like the governor or or
such a high level we're talking about
individuals who are making a lot of
money and they just because they have
some sort of management type status it's
not a good sign that they are able to
waste so much okay so let's get out of
this and talk about Seattle Seattle's
real estate market already the hottest
in the country is now seeing prices rise
faster than at any point since the
housing bubble last decade even some of
the wealthy for and buyers are
apparently starting to get priced out so
let's take this for a moment you had
Vancouver the prices Rose dramatically
and then they implemented a foreign
buyer's tax of 15% that brought sales
down that brought prices down but in
short order those prices came back up
you look at areas like Toronto where
they tried to bring in these little
minuscule type rules and regulations and
it really didn't do that much I mean the
prices have sort of stagnated but they
the actual prices have risen
particularly on detached homes sales are
stagnating because I believe that
individuals are waiting to see what
happens then you look at areas like
Manhattan like San Francisco where the
prices continue to rise and rise and
Rise so that is one thing that we need
to understand that as long as interest
rates remain low historically you will
have this happen now even when the
foreign buyer tax was
implemented what happened with those
foreign buyers well they just were
seeking out a different market and what
happened as I showed you here on this
channel was that the Chinese search
engine immediately after the foreign
buyer tax was implemented the Chinese
search engine all of a sudden showed the
results that Seattle became the new Hot
Market so individuals from China started
searching Seattle real estate right
after the foreign buyer tax as an
investor you may not necessarily even
care where you're buying it you want it
just you know a good area you want the
land to appreciate the value to
appreciate apprciate and so whether it's
in Vancouver or Seattle doesn't matter
much to you as a foreign buyer so that's
what happens they're not able to stop it
from happening one by one all these
cities will just continue to go up and
up and up also though what I have found
out is that in Vancouver the the
builders were actually offering to pay
for that 15% tax so they said don't
worry about the tax we'll pay for it
just continue to buy our homes here just
trying to keep this scheme
going look at this single family home
prices across the greater Seattle Rose
13.3% in May compared to a year ago and
that's showing you that it's too hot
these prices have risen to such a level
that cannot be sustained for too long
we're not talking about penny stocks
here we are not talking about equities
in general we're talking about real
estate it's supposed to be a slow and
steady ride and that right there shows
me that the market is just too hot why
interest rates are very very low
historically they've brought them up a
little bit but it will be at that point
when they reach a certain level maybe 4%
maybe 5% But ultimately what we're
waiting for is that snap and that crack
of that of the backs of individuals as
they cannot pay when it's time to
refinance let's look at this here might
be a little hard to see but see tops the
nation in home price growth okay so
let's look at this when you see the
national level being 5.6% and that is
high 5.6% year-over-year that would be
great considered to be excellent growth
in real estate depending on the area and
this and that but as a national level
that is then you look at the Seattle
area which has gone 13.3% it's many
times what the national level is so you
know that it's not just the nation as a
whole Seattle is being focused on and
that's the same situation in Canada and
I'm sure many other uh cities and
countries around the world are
experiencing the same thing certain
cities are escalating other cities are
not doing so well so that's it for that
I want to move on to this quickly
looking at the case Schiller home price
index comparing that to Seattle being
right up there at 111 compare that to
even San Francisco New York City which
has you know in comparison looks very
small but you know that all of these
areas are definitely uh very very hot
you know that you know that San
Francisco and LA and New York these
markets have risen considerably over the
years but compared to Seattle nothing
seems to come close so what are they
going to do about it ultimately nothing
they want that to continue they want the
heat they want the construction they
want the materials they want everything
to continue to go but the individuals
who are ultimately buying these homes
not the foreign buyers perhaps but
individuals who are taking on debt
whoever that might be those people are
going to be hurt because interest rates
may rise interest rates look like
they're rising in the US they look like
they're Rising basically everywhere and
it seems to be the policy that's going
in place if they bring the interest
rates down sure everything can continue
but ultimately people are priced out of
the market as an average individual we
are unable to afford that look at the
average salary look at the average house
price and you realize the
truth that's all for this video if you
found it informative then I'd ask you to
please give me a thumbs up remember that
when you give me a thumbs up it pushes
these videos higher up into the YouTube
search ranking so I do appreciate that
very much if you want more free
information then I would ask you to
check out my website I've got a free
ecourse I've got free ebooks definitely
check it out at the money gps.com